Scripts to Update CMISS Input Files
===================================

Each subdirectory is labelled in the format YYYYMMDD with the date of the
release prior to the change in file format.  The subdirectory therefore
contains scripts to update CMISS input files from the format of the release on
the corresponding date to format of the next release.

From 2006 fixes for CMGUI are now stored in a directory corresponding to the 
cmgui release number for which they are required.

Scripts named fixip*.* update CMISS input files having the corresponding
extension .ip*.  CMISS is usually able to update these files automatically
when reading them prompting the user for input if run interactively.
Sometimes, however, it is useful to run these scripts when there are a large
number of files or when the files are not readable by every user.  The scripts
(by default) operate on all files below the current directory having the
corresponding extension.  A backup of each file changed is made with the
extension .old.

Scripts named fixcom.* update the CMISS command files (usually having a .com
extension).  CMISS is not able to update these automatically.  These scripts
work similarly to the fixip*.* scripts.


Notes for Developers
====================

Please make sure that the scripts can detect that a modification has already
been applied to a file so that additional lines are not added each time the
script is run.

When committing the scripts please provide an informative log message
referring to the source code change that necessitated the input file format
change and the reason for the change.

Use the script arguments '-c examples' to check out the appropriate example
files from CVS and update them.  Check they look right and commit the changes
with an informative log message.

The command

  pod2text -c $CMISS_ROOT/cmiss_perl/lib/CmUtils/IpFileFix.pm | less

may be useful for documentation on functions available for modifying input
files.
